See notes1_2_24:
New ideas on 1/2/24:

My definition:

Genetic (or genomic) plasticity:  The ability of a population to adapt to new conditions
in a few generations.  Perhaps it is important that these "new conditions" are conditions in the
recent history of the population.  (This is one definition of evolvavbility.)

Analogy from John N. Thompson, The Geographic Mosaic of Selection  (I can't find the page).
A boat loosely tethered to a pier.  Because it is tethered, is it longer term stable. 
Because it is loosely tethered, it can adapt to short term changes without giving up longer
term stability.

Relationship to Wagner's definition of evolvability:  Maybe should be population evolvability rather 
than phenotyipe evolvability.  Population can reach many recent phenotypes by either existing diversity
or by single mutations.

References:

https://www.quantamagazine.org/evolution-fast-or-slow-lizards-help-resolve-a-paradox-20240102/?mc_cid=f72344261d&mc_eid=1246e05f1b

https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2222071120   #whole paper not available

Significance

Stabilizing selection has been widely invoked to explain why many species’ phenotypes experience little to no change through time. However, 
microevolutionary field studies have revealed that stabilizing selection is very rarely detected in natural populations. Here, we show that 
species’ phenotypes can be maintained through time in the absence of consistent stabilizing selection that continually favors a central 
optimal phenotype. Instead, species are maintained on fitness peaks through the accumulation of selection that fluctuates in form, 
strength, direction, or existence through many independent time periods. In multispecies communities, this accumulation of selection 
creates a rugged community-wide fitness landscape on which different species occupy divergent adaptive peaks separated by fitness valleys 
that reinforce species distinctness through time.

Abstract

Species’ phenotypic characteristics often remain unchanged over long stretches of geological time. Stabilizing selection—in which fitness 
is highest for intermediate phenotypes and lowest for the extremes—has been widely invoked as responsible for this pattern. At the 
community level, such stabilizing selection acting individually on co-occurring species is expected to produce a rugged fitness landscape 
on which different species occupy distinct fitness peaks. However, even with an explosion of microevolutionary field studies over the past 
four decades, evidence for persistent stabilizing selection driving long-term stasis is lacking. Nonetheless, biologists continue to invoke 
stabilizing selection as a major factor explaining macroevolutionary patterns. Here, by directly measuring natural selection in the wild, 
we identified a complex community-wide fitness surface in which four Anolis lizard species each occupy a distinct fitness peak close to 
their mean phenotype. The presence of local fitness optima within species, and fitness valleys between species, presents a barrier to 
adaptive evolutionary change and acts to maintain species differences through time. However, instead of continuously operating stabilizing 
selection, we found that species were maintained on these peaks by the combination of many independent periods among which selection 
fluctuated in form, strength, direction, or existence and in which stabilizing selection rarely occurred. Our results suggest that lack of 
substantial phenotypic evolutionary change through time may be the result of selection, but not persistent stabilizing selection as 
classically envisioned.
