Quanta Magazine:biologists-rethink-the-logic-behind-cells-molecular-signals.

Conversely, if all the interactions between the molecular components are very finely tuned, “it’s very

https://www.quantamagazine.org/biologists-rethink-the-logic-behind-cells-molecular-signals-20210916/

Back in 2000, when Michael Elowitz of the California Institute of Technology was still a grad student 
at Princeton University, he accomplished a remarkable feat in the young field of synthetic biology: He 
became one of the first to design and demonstrate a kind of functioning “circuit” in living cells. He 
and his mentor, Stanislas Leibler, inserted a suite of genes into Escherichia coli bacteria that 
induced controlled swings in the cells’ production of a fluorescent protein, like an oscillator in 
electronic circuitry.

It was a brilliant illustration of what the biologist and Nobel laureate François Jacob called the 
“logic of life”: a tightly controlled flow of information from genes to the traits that cells and other 
organisms exhibit.

Biologists thought that the regulatory systems in cells might obey something like the simple binary 
logic of electronic circuits. Then experiments showed that the versatility of the real “logic of life” 
lies in its graded complexity.

Recently, by looking closely at the protein interactions within one key developmental pathway that 
shapes the embryos of humans and other complex animals, Elowitz and his co-workers have caught a 
glimpse of what the logic of complex life is really like. This pathway is a riot of molecular 
promiscuity that would make a libertine blush, where the component molecules can unite in many 
different combinations. It might seem futile to hope that this chaotic dance could convey any coherent 
signal to direct the fate of a cell. Yet this sort of helter-skelter coupling among biomolecules may be 
the norm, not some weird exception. In fact, it may be why multicellular life works at all.

[Note the dramatic change in results from prokaryotes to multi-cellular eukaryotes.] 

“Biological systems are generally much more robust than we imagine,” said Meng Zhu, a developmental 
biologist at Harvard Medical School.

Zhu thinks that promiscuous, highly interconnected protein networks might also promote the ability of 
organisms to acquire useful new capacities through evolution. “A system that has higher connectivity 
tends to evolve new functions more easily,” she said, because it can better tolerate deleterious 
mutations in its component parts.

Conversely, if all the interactions between the molecular components are very finely tuned, “it’s very 
hard to do something new,” said Ard Louis, a physicist who works on problems of biological complexity 
at the University of Oxford. Any change in those components, even one that seems advantageous, is 
likely to disrupt some existing, possibly vital function.

Promiscuous binding that allows one protein to substitute for another might therefore enable the 
network to acquire new functions without losing the old ones. [Andreas] Wagner, working with Joshua 
Payne at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, has found support for this idea: They have 
shown that the promiscuous binding of transcription factors can promote both robustness to mutations 
and the ability to evolve new functions.

=================================

Lessons for us:

Suppose we are looking at ways for genotypes to map to a given phenotype.  If the parameters are such 
that the number of gates is close to the K complexity of the phenotype, then there is relatively little 
flexibility in how the logic gates of the genotype combine to compute the phenotype.  But if the number 
of gates is considerably larger than the K complexity of the phenotype, there are many ways that a 
circuit can map to the phenotype.  There can be inactive gates which provide additional flexibility in 
the evolution of the genotype such as in neutral evolution.

A specific example is in the UP paper.  Table 5 shows that in the 4-input case, increasing the number 
of gates drammatically increases the success of fitness epochal evolution.  We might be able to restate 
these results to show that the success rate for fitness epochal evolution is extremely low in the 
4-input 10-gate case.
