From an e-mail to Cheyenne on 2/15/21:

Hi Cheyenne,

I have an idea on how to replicate the Labar/Adami results using the digital 
circuit GP map.  My current neutral evolution and epochal evolution methods are 
close to what would happen with a large population.  Each member of the 
population would do a neutral walk starting from the given circuit.  When some 
population member discovers a circuit with a higher fitness, then strong 
selection would convert the remaining population members to this circuit.  
In my simulations, this happens with the next generation, but with a large 
population this would take some time.  As the difficulty of the target phenotype 
increases, the neutral/epochal evolution approximation to the large population 
situation get better.

For the small population case, one would just have to run a population-based 
simulation.  The fitness of a circuit is a scaling of Hamming distance from 
the output of the circuit to the target phenotype.  Population size and fitness 
would have to be such that a circuit that increased the distance to the phenotype 
by 1 would have a moderate fitness decrease from the fitness of the parent circuit.  
What "moderate" means would have to be determined by running the simulation.

Assuming that this works, I am not proposing that it be included in the nearly 
neutral paper.  Explaining the digital circuit background would make the paper 
too long.  Maybe a short paper could be written, submitted, and posted to bioRxiv.

In any case, it helps me to write down my ideas.  Often ideas like this don't 
exactly pan out and are more complicated to implement than what I anticipate now.  
I need to read Labar/Adami carefully.

End of e-mail to Cheyenne.

Some quotes from LaBar/Adami (2016):

While any individual neutral
mutation has a low probability of fixation, a large population would be able to accumulate
many neutral mutations at any given time allowing for the exploration of its fitness landscape.
Work by Wagner and colleagues suggests that many phenotypic traits are connected to each
other by sequences of phenotypically neutral mutations [18, 24].  page 2

Meanwhile, weakened purifying selection and increased genetic drift in small populations
results in the accumulation of slightly deleterious excess genome content [3, 29]. At a later time,
this slightly deleterious genome content may be mutated into novel beneficial traits [4, 33].  page 3

However, the small population sizes that enhance the evolution
of phenotypic complexity also enhance the likelihood of population extinction. We also found
that the largest populations evolved similar complexity to the smallest populations. Large 
populations evolved longer genomes and greater phenotypic complexity through the fixation of
rare beneficial insertions instead. Large populations were able to discover these rare beneficial
mutations due to an increased mutation supply. Finally, we found that a strong deletion bias
can prevent the evolution of greater complexity in small, but not in large, populations.  page 3

However, it is possible that multiple small populations could reduce the risk of extinction
without reducing the evolution of complexity; future work should consider the interplay
between population size and the evolution of complexity within a metapopulation of small
populations.  page 9

Ideas:
If the number of inputs and outputs is fixed, then numgates coresponds to a measure of genome size.
So we should have a mutation that decreases/increases num_gates.  Deletion can just delete a gate.
The output of the deleted gate would just be replaced by one of the inputs to the deleted gate.
Insertion can insert a gate at a random position in the sequence of gates (not sure about as the last
gate).  The output of the gate can replace one of the inputs of subsequent gates.  The inputs can be 
chosen randomly according the the levelsback parameter.  Most insertions and deletions will be 
deleterious, but that is OK.
