Hypotheses to test for LaBar/Adami (2016) simulation:

LA setup:
1.  Point mutations 0.01 per instruction copied.  Insdels 0.005 events per division. Insertions/deletions equal.
2.  Point mutations 0.15 per division (per genome per generation).  Indels 0.005 events per division.
3.  Point mutations 0.01 per instruction copied.  Insertions 0.001 per division, deletions 0.009 per division.
LA hypotheses:
1.  Small and large populations evolve higher Tononi/K complexity than int sized populations. LA Fig. 4
2.  Small and large populations evolve higher numgates than int sized populations. LA Fig. 1
3.  Proportion of slightly deleterious mutations is higher for small pops.  LA Fig. 2
4.  Proportion of beneficial mutations is higher for large pops.  LA Fig. 3
5.  Correlation between T/K complexity and numgates.  LA Fig. 5
6.  Deletion bias:  test 1 and 2 under setup 3. 

OH (other hypotheses):
1.  Measure heterozygosity, IQV, richness as in nearly neutral
2.  Measure robustness: fraction of neutral (or maybe nearly neutral) mutations
4.  Measure evolvability:  number or fraction of unique phenotypes
5.  Measure lethal mutations, i. e., mutations that don't survive the first round of selection.
5.  Evolution under changing goal(s).

Franklin LaBar Adami (2019)  
Flat genotypes are adapted to a high mutation rate, fit genotypes are adapted to a low mutation rate.
Low mutation rate: 0.5 mutations/genome/generation.  High mutation rate: 2.0 mutations/genome/generation.
Assumption that small populations are flatter?
1.  Flat genotypes have a greater likelihood of beneficial and neutral mutations.
2.  Fit genotyhpes greater likelihood of deleterious mutations.
3.  Flat genotypes had a greater likelihood of deleterious mutations.
4.  How does this relate to population size?  

Setups:
1.  Evolution to a single random fixed goal.
2.  Evolution to a single random varying goal.
3.  Evolution to a collection of random fixed goals.

Setup questions:
1.  Point mutation rate? Depends on genome size?
2.  Indel mutation rate?
3.  Fitness scaling?  Read NN paper.
4.  How to do gate insertion.  

TODO:
1.  Add numgates matrix to recorded stats.
2.  Write gate insertion and deletion. 
    Done in such a way that insertion is neutral, and deletion is neutral if there are any inactive gates.
3.  Write code to test LA and OH hypotheses from history matrices
