Note that I saved an interim presentation to evotech/complexity/presentations.

Hello Anna,

Cheyenne and I have been working on the evolution of genotype-phenotype maps using
the simulation of the evolution of digital logic gate circuits as an example.  
One of the questions that we have investigated is the evolution of increasing
complexity.  I have some new ideas that relate complexity, information, and 
cultural/technological evolution.  My ideas are based on what Christoph Adami 
calls physical complexity. I give a brief description below, and I am attaching 
some Adami papers for more details.  Below I ask for some suggestions for relevant 
research on phylogenetic approaches to technological evolution.

Cheyenne should be available to talk to you about this approach Tuesday morning
after her class which ends at about 10:20.  I will then meet with Cheyenne after
a distributed systems seminar that I am teaching which ends at 11.

I will try to give you an idea of how Adami defines genomic complexity in terms of information.
He calls his version of complexity "physical complexity" which is somewhat confusing in that
it refers to the complexity of a genomic sequence.  "it is sufficient to think of the physical 
complexity of a sequence as the amount of information that is coded in the genomes of an adapting 
population about the environment to which it is adapting."  (Adami 2002 "What is complexity" p. 1088).
Clearly, if this information allows the organisms of the population to predict their environment, the
information should enhance the likelihood that the organism can survive and reproduce.

"Whether or not complexity increases in evolution is one of the central questions of evolutionary biology."
(Adami 2002).  This is also one of the central questions for other kinds of evolution
including technological and artificial evolution.

This notion of complexity can be mathematically defined in terms of entropy.  The details
are given both in (Adami 2002 "What is complexity") and in (Adami 2012 "The use of information theory 
in evolutionary biology").  To summarize, entropy measures the capability of a sequence to encode 
information.  Information can only be defined for a population of sequences and
is the reduction in entropy of a population of sequences from organisms that are adapted to
the environment in question.  For example, one can consider the amino acid sequence of 
a particular protein.  The protein sequence for an essential protein of a taxonomic class of 
organisms will have reduced entropy because at particular positions in the amino acid sequence all, 
or almost all, organisms will have the same amino acid.  In other words, the protein sequence
will be constrained by purifying selection which reduces its entropy.  This reduction in 
entropy is the measure of the amount of information that this protein sequence of the organism
gives the organism about its environment, and this is also the measure of the "physical" complexity
of the organism.

I am trying to extend these ideas to technological/cultural evolution.  The first problem is 
that technological artifacts do not have an explicit genome.  The most obvious substitute is a list of 
the attributes of the artifact.  This is the approach of (Lycett 2016 "The Importance of a “Quantitative 
Genetic” Approach to the Evolution of Artifact Morphological Traits".)
One obvious measure of the complexity of an artifact is the number of attributes of the artifact,
and this measure can be related to the "reduction in entropy" definition of complexity previously
described.  Using an existing phylogenetic research paper to define the attributes has advantages
and disadvantages.  An advantage is that if the attributes were defined for some other purpose,
then this reduces the potential bias of defining attributes that confirm a complexity hypothesis.
But the corresponding disadvantage is that a complexity hypothesis may not be supported.

I would like suggestions for technological phylogentic research that could be useful test
cases for this approach.

I will comment that I checked the Larissa Straffon (2016) "Cultural Phylogenetics"  book out of the 
library and it is useful.  The Caridi and Schneinson paper on mutual information contains
good ideas.

Alden
