Revisiting how Schuster, Fontana, Stadler, Hofacker (1994) derived the shape space covering property.

Statement of shape space covering:  (page 4):  "strong evidence for the existence of a neighborhood
(a high dimensional ball) around every random sequence that contains sequences whose structures
include almost all common shapes."

"To verify the prediction of a characteristic neighborhood covering almost all commom shapes, we did a
computer experiment.  A target sequence is chosen at random.  A second random sequence serves as an
initial trial sequence, and its structure as a reference structure.  Next we search for a nearest
neighbor of the trial sequence that folds into the reference sequence but lies closer to the target.
If such a sequence is found, it is accepted as the new trial sequence, and the procedure is repeated
until no further approach to the target is possible.  The final Hamming distance to the is an upper
bound for the minimum distance between two sequences folding into the reference structure and the
structure of the target respectively."  [See Figure 4.]  

I will call the above algorithm "directed neutral evolution".  In our notation, start with a random
target genotype and a random trial phenotype.  For each step, mutate the trial genotype in all possible ways 
looking for a neutral genotype that is closer to the target phenotype, and if one is found, this becomes 
the new trial genotype.  The algorithm stops when no closer neutral trial genotype is found.  The result 
is the distance from the last trial genotype to the target genotype.  Genotype distance is defined next.

Note that a genotype is a sequence of gates (interior nodes) where each gate is specified by
a triple: (gate_function, input1, input2).  Thus, a genotype with $g$ gates is specified by 
a $3g$-tuple, and the distance between genotypes with the same number gates is the number of 
mismatching elements of their two tuples.

Our algorithm for shape-space covering is:
  1)  Start with a random trial genotype.
  2)  Run directed neutral evolution with all "common" phenotypes as target phenotypes.
  3)  The result is some statistic or statistics (such as the mean) summarizing these results.

Fontana (2002) describes the result of this RNA experiment as: "In other words, given a random sequence 
of length 100, 15 point mutations are, on average, sufficient to realize any frequent shape. This means 
that a relatively small volume of sequence space around each random sequence realizes the entire
statistically relevant portion of shape space."  Note that the test example for Schuster et al is
100 base pair RNA sequences.

What is small for 3-input 8-gate case?  I claim that this is roughly comparable to the 100 bp RNA
sequence case.  There are $100^4 = 10^8$ RNA genotypes and $1.6 \times 10^14$ circuit genotypes.
Each RNA genotype can be mutated in 300 ways and each circuit can be mutated in 70 ways.
A:83524  S:85048

http://ncra.ucd.ie/papers/complexity_measures_cec2016.pdf
