Idea on cumulative cultural evolution:

Read https://www.quantamagazine.org/the-mystery-of-the-missing-multicellular-prokaryotes-20240502

"As different as these multicellular creatures might be, their bodies are all composed of the same type 
of cell — eukaryotic cells, which enclose their DNA in a nucleus and possess energy-producing mitochondria. 
The much older prokaryotic cells, which make up the vast kingdoms of bacteria and archaea and whose cells 
lack these features, never got complex multicellularity off the ground. They have evolved primitive forms 
of multicellularity, such as colonies of photosynthetic cyanobacteria. But there they stop. Even with a 
1.5-billion-year head start on eukaryotes, prokaryotes never evolved this other way of living."

My idea is that cumulative cultural evolution is analogous to eukaryotic cells in biology, and that
multiple cultural groups is like multicellularity in biology.

From the Quanta article:
"Emma Bingham and William Ratcliff of the Georgia Institute of Technology put forward a brand new idea, which 
they tested in a computational model. 

Ratcliff has spent the last 15 years forcing single-celled eukaryotes to evolve multicellularity in the lab. 
An unavoidable side effect of the evolution of multicellularity is that population size crashes. “Nothing 
kills effective population size like multicellularity,” Ratcliff said.

"Then, to examine their hypothesis more directly, Ratcliff and Bingham created a highly simplified computational 
model. In the model, populations of prokaryotes and eukaryotes were under pressure to develop into multicellular 
organisms of different sizes and accumulate a larger genome. The researchers programmed one group, standing in 
for eukaryotes, with a tendency to expand its genome; the other, standing in for prokaryotes, shrank it. Even as 
the organisms grew larger, the eukaryotes were always able to grow their genomes substantially and were rewarded 
for it. Below a certain size, however, the prokaryotes ran into a wall and couldn’t make their genomes larger, 
no matter how much they were rewarded."

Translate the previous paragraph to cultural evolution:

We have two populations, one without cumulative cultural evolution and one with cumulative cultural evolution.
Both populations are under selective pressure to:
1)  expand their cultural/technolgical repetoire,
2)  evolve multiple distinct subpopulations.
The hypothesis would be that the cumulative population would increase both (1) and (2), while the non-cumulative
population would not be able to increase (1).

