Definition:  The evolvability of a population of genotypes is the number of unique
phenotypes in the union of mutational neighborhoods of the genotypes of the population.

Implemented function pop_evolvability_robustness() currently in Evolvability.jl
which computes population evolvability and average robustness.

Hypothesis:  Average population evolvability increases in a varying environment.

Specific hypothesis:  Evolve a population to approximate equilibrium in a fixed environment, 
i. e., with selection to a fixed phenotype.  Then introduce periodic mutations to the phenotype 
and measure the average population evolvability.  The hypothesis is that average population 
evolvability increases.

Motivation:  Andreas Wagner has a new paper on adaptive evolvability (Wagner 2021).  
To quote the abstract:  “Evolvability is the ability of organisms to produce phenotypic variation that is both heritable and adaptive. Some biological systems may be more evolvable than others, because this very property has been subject to natural selection. In other words, evolvability may itself be the subject of adaptive evolution. For brevity, I will refer to such evolvability as adaptive evolvability. The existence of adaptive evolvability has been subject to speculation for decades (Arber, 1993, 2005; Bedau & Packard, 2003). Unfortunately, to this day we have little pertinent experimental evidence (Payne & Wagner, 2019).”  [See the paper for his references.]  At this point, I am not going to relate to his methods.

Wrote functions in Pop_evolvability.jl to start this test.  See notes/7_24_21.txt for more details.

7/26/21:  7_23_21/run_pop_evolvabilityG.jl  fixes incompatabilities introduced after 7/23/21.

Added later:  In addition to decreasing computational effort and making
more modular code, van Belle and Ackley have shown that
ADFs can increase the evolvability of populations of programs
over time [11]. They investigated the role of ADFs in evolving
programs with a time dependent fitness function and found that
not only do populations recover more quickly from periodic
changes in the fitness function, but the recovery rate increases
in time as the solutions become more modular.
From Walker & Miller Module reuse 2008.
