7/7/21:  Good ideas, but nothing has panned out.

Complexity

To a first approximation, the complexity of an entity is the diversity of its components.

More precisely, an entity has multiple layers of organization, and the complexity of
the entity is the sum of the complexities of these layers where the complexity of a layer
is the diversity of the components of the layer.

To investigate:  whether different ways of decomposing an entity give similar complexities.

The complexity of a population of organisms is the diversity of the individuals of the
population.

Observation: the cultural diversity of humans has increased over human pre-history and history.
This is especially true of science and scientists.  Science filters new contribuitions for 
uniqueness (difference from previous contributions).  Thus, one can argue that overall human
cultural complexity has been increasing and continues to increase.  Perhaps if there is a
quantitative measer of this complexity, this increase has been exponential.


Evolvability

Consider a population of organisms (entities).  Assume that there is a probability distribution
of possible mutations.  Each mutation may give a different phenotype.  The evolvability of a 
organism is the expected diversity of phenotypes produced by mutations of the organism.  The evolvability
of the population is the sum of the evolvabilities of the organisms of the population.

This definition of organism evolvability is essentially the same as our earlier definition of
genotype evolvability.  However, the previous definition of phenotype evolvability was relative
to all genotype realizations of the phenotype.  Population evolvability depends on the genotype
realizations of the phenotypes in the populations, and these phenotypes may differ over the organisms
of the population.  One way of looking at it would be the potential of innovation, or the potential
for response to a changed environment.

Note that this evolvability is not a structural property of the G-P map  because it depends on 
the population which is not determined by the G-P map.  But similar to structural properties of
the G-P map, it does not depend on fitness or selection.

Hypothesis

Hypothesis:  A population of complex organisms will tend to be more evolvable and more complex.  

First consider the case where the population is phenotypically identical.  Our GECCO results
(generalized to organisms beyond circuits) show that complexity is positively related to evolvability
which shows that complexity implies evolvability.

If the population is not phenotypically identical, it seems plausible to assume that genotypes are
genetically closely related, i. e., any genotype is reachable from any other genotype by a few
mutations.  This assumption is more plausible if we are modeling something more specialized than
the genomes of whole organisms.

Our GECCO results show a positive correlation between the complexity of organisms and their evolution phenotype
evolvability.  

Experiment:  Start with a random phenotype, and do truly neutral evolution, either single individual or 
population based.  Measure the progression of complexity over time.  If the starting phenotype is high 
complexity (either Tononi or Kolmogorov), how long does this higher complexity persist?
