Degeneracy in the complexity paper.

In biological and cultural evolution, degeneracy is defined as the ability of structurally different elements to 
perform the same function or yield the same output \cite{edelman2001degeneracy}.  Evolved system tend to achieve 
fault tolerance through degeneracy while human-designed systems tend to achiave fault tolerance through 
redundancy---using identical systems to perform the same function.  Clearly, a degenerate system is more
complex than a redundant system because a system with non-identical parts is more complex than a system with
equivalent identical parts.


How to incorporate degeneracy into our digital circuit GP map:
Assume that a 1 result corresponds to the ability perform a task.  Then we make the output gate of the circuit
an OR gate.  The inputs to the OR gate subnetworks (different but possibly overlapping) and the output of the 
circuit is 1 if either of these subnetworks outputs a 1.


Possilble hypothesis to test:  (See the Milano paper that includes complexity in the title.)
If one does evolution in a moderately changing environment, does this lead to increasing
Tononi complexity?  One would want to keep keep the changing goals with constant K complexity
since Tononi (genotype) complexity is closely related to K (phenotype) complexity.
Should we do epochal evolution, some kind of evolutionary computation evolution, or 
Wright-Fisher evolution?  Note that Milano is in a range where solutions are inexact.


Summary of Milano results:

Note that Milano et al. uses Raman & Wagner circuits with 4 inputs, 256 CGP gates in 16 layers of 16 gates.
Thus, circuits will tend to have a high proportion of non-functional gates.

Robustness to Faults Promotes Evolvability: Insights from Evolving Digital Circuits 2016
milano2016robustness

In absence of faults, evolution tends to select circuits that are small and have low phenotypic variability and evolvability. 
The need to face operation faults, instead, drives evolution toward the selection of larger circuits that are truly 
robust with respect to genetic variations and that have a greater level of phenotypic variability and evolvability.
Overall our results indicate that the need to cope with operation faults leads to the selection of circuits that have a 
greater probability to generate better circuits as a result of genetic variation with respect to a control condition in which 
circuits are not subjected to faults.


Moderate Environmental Variation Across Generations Promotes the Evolution of Robust Solutions 2019
milano2019moderate

Here we demonstrate how agents evolved in environments that vary across generations outperform agents evolved in environments 
that remain fixed. Moreover, we demonstrate that best performance is obtained when the environment varies at a moderate rate 
across generations, that is, when the environment does not vary every generation but every N generations.


Robustness, evolvability and phenotypic complexity: insights from evolving digital circuits 2019
milano2019robustness

We demonstrate that whether robustness to mutations enhances or diminishes phenotypic variability and evolvability depends on 
whether robustness is achieved through the development of parsimonious (phenotypically simple) solutions, that minimize the 
number of genes playing functional roles, or through phenotypically more complex solutions, capable of buffering the effect 
of mutations. We show that the characteristics of the selection process strongly influence the robustness and the performance 
of the evolving candidate solutions. 

Evolving Robust Solutions for Stochastically Varying Problems  {Carvalho, J{\^o}nata Tyska and Milano, Nicola and Nolfi, Stefano}

We demonstrate how evaluating candidate solutions in a limited number of stochastically varying conditions that vary over 
kjgenerations at a moderate rate is an effective method for developing high quality robust solutions. 
