Complexity measured by information.

I read American Scientist article on assembly theory by Sara Walker and Lee Cronin.

They use mass spectroscopy to assess the assembly index of molecules.  The assembly index is the number combination 
steps needed to build the molecule.  Mass spectroscopy breaks the molecule into components and measures the masses 
of the components.  They find that assembly index 15 or greater molecules are created only by
biology or technology.  "We found that only living systems produce abundant molecules with an experimentally
determined value of 15 [or more] steps."  They include technologically created molecules as created by living systems.

The crucial aspect of living systems is that they are created by Darwinian evolution.  This includes the evolution
of humans.  The status of cultural evolution is uncertain.

The most similar circuit simulation is that of Arther and Polack 2006 since they use only combination to build circuits. 

Hypothesis:  The complexity of an object is measured by the amount of information needed to construct it.

Examples:  The Kolmogorov complexity of a string is the size of the smallest universal Turing machine needed to 
construct it, or maybe to describe it.  The size of the smallest universal Turing machine is a measure of information.

The descriptional complexity (what we call the Kolmogorov complexity) of a circuit phenotype is minimum size
of a genotype that maps to it under the GP map.

One quickly gets into hierarchy problems:  If the object is constructed from subobjects, do we count the information
needed to construct these subobjects?  Assembly theory tries to measure the depth of the subobject hierarchy.
However, one should be cautious about applying assembly theory to entities other than molecules.
In our modern technology-oriented society, this hierarchy is both deep and wide.  Thus looking at archeology
and ethology results is useful.

Example:  Taj Mahal model made from Lego bricks pictured in the Walker-Cronin article.  The complexity is the 
length, or information content, of the plan needed to construct it.

Biologically constructed objects have deep hierarchy.  "Biological" means objects constructed by an evolutionary 
process.  Biologically constructed objects, including cells, have many complex subcomponents which in turn have 
many complex subcomponents, so they have a deep hierarchy and a high assembly number.  

Roughly speaking, the information needed to construct a cell is contained in its DNA, and the genomes of even the 
simplest cells have many genes and thus are complex because of the high amount of information in their genome.  
Viruses are simpler because they have smaller genomes.  (This ignores the problem that the amount of information 
stored in a genome is not very well approximated by its length.)

We can use this idea to intuitivly explain why mutating from less complex to more complex is unlikely.  Such a 
mutation must discover the additional information of the more complex object by random guessing.

Hypothesis:  The complexity of a procedure is the amount of information needed to specify the procedure.  
Haidle 2010 gives many detailed examples.

For a simple very primitive object, the complexity is the number of steps needed to construct it.  See below for measuring
the complexity of a procedure.

Aside:

Entropy and information:  The negentropy of a system is the amount of information needed to build the system from
a maximum entropy state.  Example:  the number of Maxwell's demon steps could be a measure of this information.
This is the basis for what we call Adami complexity which measures the reduction in entropy due to subjecting
an evolving system to additional constraints.
