Writing up universal properties of GP maps.

Ahnert 2017:
These properties are ‘structural’ in the sense that they are properties
of the distribution of phenotypes across the point-mutation network of
genotypes. They include: a redundancy of genotypes, meaning that many
genotypes map to the same phenotypes, a highly non-uniform distribution
of the number of genotypes per phenotype, a high robustness of phenotypes
and the ability to reach a large number of new phenotypes within a small
number of mutational steps. A further important property is that the 
robustness and evolvability of phenotypes are positively correlated. 

Section 8. Structural properties of genotype–phenotype maps

The first three of these, redundancy, bias and robustness, are illustrated 
in figure 2.

Redundancy means that many genotypes map to the same phenotype.

Bias is the skewed distribution of the number of genotypes per phenotype.

The robustness of a genotype is typically measured in terms of the fraction 
of possilbe mutations that leave the phenotype unchanged.  The robustness
of a phenotype is the average genotypic robustness of the genotypes that
map to the phenotype.

The universal property is that a phenotype's robustness scales as the
logarithm of its frequency.

Genotypes are far more correlated than one would explect based solely on GP
map bias.

Evolvability.

Formally evolvability is often quantified in terms of the variety of 
phenotypes that lie within a certain mutation distance of a genotype or 
phenotype, such as Wagner’s definitions of genotypic and phenotypic evolvability.

Comparisons of the genotypic robustness and evolvability therefore consistently 
show a negative correlation between the two.

Wagner [52] showed that phenotypic robustness and evolvability are positively 
correlated in the RNA secondary structure GP map—a finding that has also been 
reproduced in Polyominoes.

Shape space covering

In the RNA, HP and Polyomino GP maps the majority
of phenotypes has been shown to lie in close proximity of any
genotype [18,22,26]. This is because of the high-dimensional
nature of GP maps.

Manrubia 2021:

Some of the commonalities documented are navigability, as reflected in the ubiquitous 
existence of large neutral networks for common phenotypes that span the whole space of 
genotypes, a negative correlation between genotypic evolvability and genotypic 
robustness, a positive correlation between phenotypic evolvability and phenotypic 
robustness, a linear growth of phenotypic robustness with the logarithm of the NSS, 
or a near lognormal distribution of the latter. 

Aguire 2019:

Usually, navigability is believed to rely on the existence of sufficiently large neutral 
networks (NNs) of genotypes [38] since these should permit the neutral drift of populations
and a sustained exploration of alternative phenotypes without a detrimental decrease 
in fitness.

Nearly neutral mutations are common in finite populations [45], augmenting their 
adaptive ability. 

1. Most phenotypes are rare, and only a few of them are very
common. Specifically, the probability of finding a phenotype 
when sampling uniformly at random among all of
them follows a lognormal distribution for a wide variety
of models [50,55,74] and a power law for some special
cases [49,54,55]. Therefore, a small fraction of the largest
phenotypes contains most genotypes, such that in practice
those are the only ones visible to natural selection [50,59,76];
together with the asymmetry in the mutual accessibility of
two phenotypes [58,77], that property causes a form of
(entropic) trapping in genotype space [74,76,78,79]

2. The degree of a node in an NN, defined as the number of
one-mutant neighbours that belong to the same NN (aka
its genotypic robustness), is a heterogeneous quantity,
although its distribution is often unimodal [28,39,61].
Additionally, the average degree of an NN is proportional
to the logarithm of the size of the network [55,60,61,80].

3. These NNs are assortative, at least for phenotypes defined
through minimum-energy principles [61,81,82]. In an assortative 
network, genotypes are connected to other genotypes
of similar degree, and this correlation in genotypic
robustness causes canalization [83], leads to phenotypic
entrapment [79] and enhances evolvability [80].

4. Neutral networks of common phenotypes percolate
genotype space. In other words, we can find two genotypes expressing the same phenotype with a sequence
similarity comparable to that of two randomly chosen
genotypes [28,84].

5. Most large phenotypes are one mutation away from each
other, such that genotypes yielding every common
phenotype can be found at the boundary of any large NN
[28,53,65,84]. As a result, the search for new phenotypes
among common ones is a fast process.

Greenbury 2016:

This idea that mutational neighbours differ from the random expectation is what we will 
call genetic correlations.

From these studies of model systems a number of basic principles have emerged, much of
which has been reviewed in important books by Wagner [15, 16]. 

Firstly, for neutral networks to exist, the GP map should exhibit redundancy, where 
multiple genotypes map onto the same phenotype. 

The second basic principle to emerge is that the number of genotypes per phenotype (the
redundancy) can vary, leading to phenotype bias, 

Thirdly, it is generally the case that the larger the redundancy, the greater the mean 
mutational robustness of genotypes mapping to that phenotype.

Fourthly, the larger the neutral network, the greater the variety of alternative 
phenotypes within one (non-neutral) point mutation of the whole neutral network, 
leading to robustness and measures of evolvability that count the number of different
phenotypes that are potentially accessible being positively correlated 

Finally, a key principle emphasised by Maynard Smith [1], but which has earlier roots in
concepts such as the shifting balance theory of Sewall Wright [23], is that neutral mutations
allow a population to access, over time, a wider variety of potential alternative phenotypes than
would be available around a single genotype [4, 11, 16].

Topics to include:

Universal properties to include:

1.  Redundancy
2.  Bias
3.  Robustness and redundancy
4.  Negative correlation between phenotypic evolvability and robustness
    See Aguire 3
5.  Evolvability
6.  Navigability
    See Greenbury 5
