Preview paper plots 11/27
1.  Logic gate circuits.
2.  log10 goal freq vs goal rank
3.  infrequent goals have higher evolvability
4.  evolvability vs log freq
5.  evo count vs sample size for rare and frequent goals
6.  evo count vs sample size for rare and frequent goals log scale
7.  robustness vs genotypic and phenotypic evolvability
8.  phenotypic evolvability vs robustness
9.  complexity vs robustness
10. complexity vs evolvability
11. evolvability vs epistasis
12. robustness vs log freq
13. evolvability vs log freq
14. complexity vs log freq
15. complexity vs neighbor complexity
16. log steps vs complexity (log steps is difficulty of evolution)
17. log steps vs log freq
18. log freq vs complexity
19. kolmogorov complexity vs tononi complexity
20. genotype evolvability vs robustness for minimum gate circuits

Wagner outline:
Note:  sequence <==> genotype,  structure <==> phenotype
1.  Genotype and phenotype robustness
2.  High sequence robustness means low sequence evolvability
3.  High structure robustness means high structure evolvability
4.  Populations evolving on large neutral networks can access greater amounts of variation
5.  Even when populations or mutation rates are small, populations with robust phenotypes 
    access more variation
6.  An evolutionary search’s ability to find a target structure is only weakly correlated with
    robustness
Discussion

Greenbury & Ahnert Fibonacci GP map
Distribution of neutral sizes
Correlations of genotype robustness vs evolvability and of phenotype robustness vs evolvability
Robustness vs frequency

Greenbury, Johnston, Ard, Ahnert Polynomial GP map
Background and examples of GP maps
Polynomial model
3. Properties of GP maps, comparison of polynomial, RNA, and HP models
3.1. Redundancy 
3.2. Phenotype bias 
3.3. Components and connectivity
3.4. Shape space covering
      Shape space covering is measured by counting the average fraction of phenotypes found when 
      applying a given number of independent mutations (the radius, n) to a genotype in the GP map. 
3.5. Robustness
3.6. Robustness versus evolvability






